---
layout: default
title: "Screenshots"
stylesheets:
 - "/assets/css/jquery.fancybox.css"
scripts:
 - "/assets/js/jquery.mousewheel-3.0.6.pack.js"
 - "/assets/js/jquery.fancybox.pack.js"
 - "screenshots.js"
---

This is a small taste of what can be done with wxWidgets. You can also find
more screenshots on the [wxPython website][1].

[1]: http://wxpython.org/wxpshots.php


## BOINC

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="boinc" href="boinc.jpg"
      title="BOINC on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="boinc-thumb.jpg" alt="BOINC on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[BOINC][2] is software that uses the idle time on your computer (Windows, Mac,
or Linux) to cure diseases, study global warming, discover pulsars, and do many
other types of scientific research.

One project that uses BOINC is SETI@home, a scientific experiment that uses
Internet-connected computers in the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence
(SETI).

[2]: http://boinc.berkeley.edu/


## SYSmark 2012

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="sysmark2012" href="sysmark2012.jpg"
      title="SYSmark 2012 on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="sysmark2012-thumb.jpg" alt="SYSmark 2012 on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[SYSmark 2012][3] is an application-based benchmark that reflects usage patterns
of business users in the areas of office productivity, data/financial
analysis, system management, media creation, 3D modeling and web development.

[3]: http://www.bapco.com/products/sysmark-2012


## Game Develop

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="gamedevelop" href="gamedevelop_win.jpg"
      title="Game Develop on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="gamedevelop_win-thumb.jpg" alt="Game Develop on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="gamedevelop" href="gamedevelop_linux.jpg"
      title="Game Develop on Linux" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="gamedevelop_linux-thumb.jpg" alt="Game Develop on Linux">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[Game Develop][4] is game development software, using wxWidgets for all GUI
related tasks, allowing creation of any kind of 2D game without needing any
knowledge in a specific language. Everything is made using visual editors and
the software uses an event-based system, using conditions which have to be
filled so as to execute actions, to manage the game logic. These events are
compiled by Game Develop to machine code. Games can be compiled and distributed
for Windows and Ubuntu.

[4]: http://www.en.compilgames.net/


## Audio Evolution

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="audio-evolution" href="audio-evolution-msw.png"
      title="Audio Evolution on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="audio-evolution-msw-thumb.jpg" alt="Audio Evolution on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="audio-evolution" href="audio-evolution-mac.png"
      title="Audio Evolution on Mac OS X" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="audio-evolution-mac-thumb.jpg" alt="Audio Evolution on Mac OS X">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[Audio Evolution][5], by eXtream Software Development, is a multi-platform
audio and MIDI sequencing application with a focus on user-friendliness and
simplicity. Compose your music using multi-channel recording, mixing,
non-destructive editing, real-time effects and a lot more for a very affordable
price!

[5]: http://www.audio-evolution.com/


## Ginkgo CADx

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="ginkgo" href="ginkgo-windows.jpg"
      title="Ginkgo CADx on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="ginkgo-windows-thumb.jpg" alt="Ginkgo CADx on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[Ginkgo CADx][6], by MetaEmotion S.L., is a multi-platform Open Source Medical
Imaging Software which provides a complete DICOM Viewer solution with advanced
capabilities and extensions support. Ginkgo CADx works on Windows, Linux and
MacOS X.

[6]: http://ginkgo-cadx.com/en/


## GIMIAS

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="gimias" href="gimias-msw.jpg"
      title="GIMIAS on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="gimias-msw-thumb.jpg" alt="GIMIAS on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="gimias" href="gimias-mac.jpg"
      title="GIMIAS on Mac OS X" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="gimias-mac-thumb.jpg" alt="GIMIAS on Mac OS X">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="gimias" href="gimias-linux.jpg"
      title="GIMIAS on Linux" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="gimias-linux-thumb.jpg" alt="GIMIAS on Linux">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[GIMIAS][7] is a workflow-oriented environment focused on biomedical image
computing and simulation. The open source framework is extensible through
plug-ins and is focused on building research and clinical software prototypes.
Gimias has been used to develop clinical prototypes in the fields of cardiac
imaging and simulation, angiography imaging and simulation, and neurology.

[7]: http://www.gimias.org/


## WebsitePainter

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="websitepainter" href="websitepainter-msw.jpg"
      title="WebsitePainter on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="websitepainter-msw-thumb.jpg" alt="WebsitePainter on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="websitepainter" href="websitepainter-mac.jpg"
      title="WebsitePainter on Mac OS X" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="websitepainter-mac-thumb.jpg" alt="WebsitePainter on Mac OS X">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[WebsitePainter][8] is a web editor for creating professional looking Websites,
without HTML knowledge and programming. With a few clicks it is possible to
create web pages with elements like Web2.0 buttons, gradients, round borders,
hover effects, transparencies, continuous text and more. WebsitePainter works
on Windows and Mac OS X.

[8]: http://www.ambiera.com/websitepainter/index.html


## Trident

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="trident" href="trident-msw.jpg"
      title="Trident on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="trident-msw-thumb.jpg" alt="Trident on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="trident" href="trident-linux.jpg"
      title="Trident on Linux" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="trident-linux-thumb.jpg" alt="Trident on Linux">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="trident" href="trident-solaris.jpg"
      title="Trident on Solaris" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="trident-solaris-thumb.jpg" alt="Trident on Solaris">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

Trident, by [USCS][9], is designed as a satellite application to the CADDS-5
system, as well as operating as a standalone program, to be used in
shipbuilding. It is a modularized application, running on Win32, Solaris and
Linux platforms. Presently there are 3 working modules: paint area estimation,
hull draw generation, and CADDS-5 hiding procedure editor.

[9]: http://www.uscs.hr/


## Kirix Strata

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="kirix-strata" href="kirix-strata-msw.png"
      title="Kirix Strata on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="kirix-strata-msw-thumb.jpg" alt="Kirix Strata on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="kirix-strata" href="kirix-strata-linux.jpg"
      title="Kirix Strata on Linux" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="kirix-strata-linux-thumb.jpg" alt="Kirix Strata on Linux">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[Kirix Strata][10] is an ad hoc data analysis and reporting tool for business
analysts and IT workers. Strata enables you to explore and work with structured
data much more effectively than with common data tools like spreadsheets and
desktop databases. With Strata, you can access data from just about anywhere
(including the Web), work with unlimited file sizes, and use a wealth of
analytic tools to quickly accomplish your tasks.

[10]: http://www.kirix.com/


## Caedium

<ul class="thumbnails">
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="caedium" href="caedium-msw.jpg"
      title="Caedium on Windows" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="caedium-msw-thumb.jpg" alt="Caedium on Windows">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="caedium" href="caedium-mac.jpg"
      title="Caedium on Mac OS X" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="caedium-mac-thumb.jpg" alt="Caedium on Mac OS X">
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="span2">
    <a data-fancybox-group="caedium" href="caedium-linux.jpg"
      title="Caedium on Linux" class="thumbnail fancybox">
      <img src="caedium-linux-thumb.jpg" alt="Caedium on Linux">
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

Symscape's [Caedium][11] provides an affordable, unified simulation environment
for 3D fluid flow analysis and visualization on Windows, Macintosh, and Linux.
Caedium uses state-of-the-art Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) to simulate
the fluid flow and heat transfer over almost any configuration. Caedium
combines intuitive drag and drop model configuration with affordable pricing
and free trials, bringing CFD within the reach of everyone.

[11]: http://www.symscape.com/product/symlab